[docs] document the use of TLS (#1881)
grafana/tempo: docs/tempo/website/configuration/tls.md

> ---

Author: Do we need a conclusion of some kind at the bottom of this page?

Reviewer: Maybe a section for verifying or testing the configuration?

title: Configure TLS Communication

> weight: 70

Author: I made up some numbers.

Reviewer: The numbers determine the order the pages appear in the left-hand navigation.

Author: I'll take your suggestion on where to nest it.

Reviewer: Here's the current left nav under Configuration and their assigned weights. I am not sure that these topics are grouped in any particular order. The first three topics deal with permissions, so maybe under Azure blog storage? Is there another topic that TLS is more related to that would make more sense? 

GCS - weight 10 
S3 - weight 20
Azure - weight 30
Query - weight 30
Compression - weight 50
Multi-tenancy - weight 60
Manifest - weight 70
Parquet - weight 75
Polling - weight 80 

With a weight of 70, the TLS page would appear either above or below Manifest. If you want the page to appear under Azure blog storage, then maybe a weight of 35 (and change the weight of Query to 40).

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104772500/200987260-7e2bc358-cac7-400a-9676-64bb54d02dc6.png)

---

> # Configure TLS Communication

Reviewer: I changed communication to lower case since we primarily use sentence case for titles. Unless TLS Communication is a proper noun? 

```suggestion
# Configure TLS communication
```

Tempo can be configured to communicate between the components using Transport Layer Security, or TLS.

> Please note, the ciphers and TLS version here are for example purposes only. We are in no way recommending which ciphers or TLS versions for use in production environments, and are here for example purposes only.

Author: Is there a markdowny way for us to call this out a little brighter?

Reviewer 2: `**bold**` ?

Author: I see the impulse to specify a person with a title, but not sure what to say about it.

Reviewer: I think we're good without saying a specific person or talk to anyone. someone implementing this should know that they need to have any TLS work conform with their own network secirty.

> Tempo can be configured to communicate between the components using Transport Layer Security, or TLS.
> 
> Please note, the ciphers and TLS version here are for example purposes only. We are in no way recommending which ciphers or TLS versions for use in production environments, and are here for example purposes only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tempo can be configured to communicate between the components using Transport Layer Security, or TLS.

>**Note:** The ciphers and TLS version here are for example purposes only. We are not recommending which ciphers or TLS versions for use in production environments.
```

> ## Server Configuration
> 

Reviewer: I'm adding an introductory sentence here to summarize what the YAML snippet does and/or how it would be used. What is the purpose of this code block? 
Please feel free to update this phrasing. Where would people add this tempo config file or some place else? 
```suggestion
## Server configuration

This sample TLS server configuration shows supported options. 

```

```yaml
server:

>   tls_cipher_suites: TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256,TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384,TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256,TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

Reviewer 2: is this just documenting weaveworks common config? fine if it is, just checking.

i assume this the list of accepted cipher suites?

Author: The specific list of ciphers isn't related to the weaveworks config beyond supporting the `tls_cipher_suites` config option.  Those were just ciphers that I had laying around for reasons, so just used those for examples.  Far more ciphers are supported, but selection is part art/science/paranoia, I suppose.

  tls_min_version: VersionTLS12

  grpc_tls_config:
    cert_file: /tls/tls.crt
    key_file: /tls/tls.key
    client_auth_type: VerifyClientCertIfGiven
    client_ca_file: /tls/ca.crt
  http_tls_config:
    cert_file: /tls/tls.crt
    key_file: /tls/tls.key
    client_auth_type: VerifyClientCertIfGiven
    client_ca_file: /tls/ca.crt
```

Valid values for the `client_auth_type` are documented in the standard `crypt/tls` package under `ClientAuthType` [here](https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/tls#ClientAuthType).

> ## Client Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Client configuration
```

Several components of Tempo need to configure the gRPC clients they use to communicate with other components. For example, when the `querier` contacts the `query-frontend` to request work, the client in use must enable TLS if the server is serving a TLS endpoint.

The Tempo configuration uses a standard configuration stanza for each of these client configurations. Below is an example of the configuration.

> The optional configuration elements `tls_min_version`, `tls_cipher_suites`, and `tls_insecure_skip_verify` may be omitted. The option `tls_server_name` may or may not be required, depending on the environment.

Reviewer: Is everything not marked as optional then required?

Author: I think this is correct, yes.

```yaml
grpc_client_config:
  tls_enabled: true
  tls_cert_path: /tls/tls.crt
  tls_key_path: /tls/tls.key
  tls_ca_path: /tls/ca.crt
  tls_server_name: tempo.trace.svc.cluster.local
  tls_insecure_skip_verify: false
  tls_cipher_suites: TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256,TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384,TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256,TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
  tls_min_version: VersionTLS12
```

> The above configuration block needs to be set at the following configuration locations.

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we should write this out as a procedure? When you say that the configuration block needs to be set, does that mean the entire code block should be included under each of the three sections listed below? And if so, are TLS options copied and pasted without any changes? (i.e., are there options that would be changed for any of the sections? Reading through, I don't think so, but I'm asking for clarity.)
```suggestion
The configuration block needs to be set at the following configuration locations.
```

Author: That's right.  The block would appear at each of the locations, unmodified.  Unless there was a reason to modify perhaps.  I can think of a couple reasons maybe that the server block has a more loose configuration on the query-frontends to support more clients or some such.

- `ingester_client.grpc_client_config`
- `metrics_generator_client.grpc_client_config`
- `querier.query-frontend.grpc_client_config`

Additionally, `memberlist` must also be configured, but the client configuration is nested directly under `memberlist` as follows. The same configuration options are available as above.

```
memberlist:
    tls_enabled: true
    tls_cert_path: /tls/tls.crt
    tls_key_path: /tls/tls.key
    tls_ca_path: /tls/ca.crt
    tls_server_name: tempo.trace.svc.cluster.local
    tls_insecure_skip_verify: false
```

### Receiver TLS

Additional receiver configuration can be added to support TLS communication for traces being sent to Tempo. The receiver configuration is pulled in from the Open Telemetry collector, and is [documented upstream here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/receiver/otlpreceiver/config.md#configtls-tlsserversetting).

> An example `tls` block might look like the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example `tls` block might look like the following:
```

```yaml
tls:
  ca_file: /tls/ca.crt
  cert_file: /tls/tls.crt
  key_file: /tls/tls.key
  min_version: VersionTLS12
```

> The above structure can be set on the following receiver configurations.

Reviewer: Changing to a colon at the end of the sentence since it is followed by an example. 
```suggestion
The above structure can be set on the following receiver configurations:
```
